# RFC-ABM-210329 A real-time monitoring data capturer and player

Author(s): Nathan Yang

Approved by: (fill approvers' names)

## Table of contents
1. [Background](#background)
1. [Proposal](#proposal)
	1. [Architecture design](#architecture-design)
	2. [RTMP server](#rtmp-server)
1. [Implementation details](#implementation-details)
1. [Rationales](#rationales)
	1. [Cache invalidation](#cache-invalidation)
	2. [Naming things](#naming-things)
	3. [Asynchronous callbacks](#asynchronous-callbacks)
	4. [Off-by-one errors](#off-by-one-errors)
1. [Open questions](#open-questions)
2. [Future steps](#future-steps)

## [Background](#background)
Nowadays, there's a trend that small- and middle-scale corporations need data solutions to boost their productivity.
However, data solutions offered by big companies such as Aliyun are not affordable to many small- and middle-scale corporations.
Additionally, centralized services are open to attacks and hence the risk of data breach becomes even higher in such a scenario.
In the light of both affordability and potential privacy leakage issues, ABMatrix offers an affordable industry internet platform where users can fully manage their data without compromising their privacies.


In the first phase of this project, we aim to build a system that captures data directly from surveillance cameras, plays the footages and stores the data on the ABMatrix's private IPFS network.


## [Proposal](#proposal)

### [Architecture design](#architecture-design)
```
      Network camera              Website Embedded     Viewer with
        Source                    Video Player     IPFS Client
          |                              ^             ^                   ^             ^
    (rtmp-publish)                       |             |                   |             |
          |                            (http)        (ipfs)              (http)        (ipfs)
          v                              |             |                   |             |
+-------------------+                +---------------------+           +---------------------+
| rtmp-server       |                | ipfs-server         |           | ipfs-mirror         |
| ↳ nginx-rtmp      |                | ↳ ipfs with pubsub  |           | ↳ ipfs with pubsub  |
|                   |<--(rtmp-pull)--| ↳ ipfs-http gateway |<--(ipfs)--| ↳ ipfs-http gateway |
|                   |                | ↳ ffmpeg            |           |- - - - - - - - - - -|
|- - - - - - - - - -|                |- - - - - - - - - - -|           | Pins IPFS hashes    |
| Runs RTMP server  |                | Encodes HLS ts+m3u8 |           | learnt from IPNS id |
| publishable from  |                | pins on IPFS and    |           | of ipfs-server      |
| authenticated IPs |                | publishes to IPNS   |           +---------------------+
+-------------------+                +---------------------+
          |
   (rtmp-pull/push)
          |
          v
Other Streaming Services
```

The on-premise network camera pushes to the `rtmp-server`.
The `ipfs-server` pulls that RTMP stream, encodes ts chunks in a live m3u8 file using
ffmpeg, then IPFS adds and pins those files and uses IPNS to publish the m3u8 to its node
ID. The built-in ipfs-http gateway allow those content to be accessed via HTTP,
which is what the embedded player on the website will use.
However, viewers running an IPFS client (with pubsub enabled) can directly view the streams over IPFS.
Optionally, we can run one or more `ipfs-mirror` servers that pin the live streaming content and run additional gateways.


### [RTMP server](#rtmp-server)
Real-Time Messaging Protocol (RTMP) is an open source protocol owned by Adobe that's designed to stream audio and video by maintaining low latency connections. Clients use a handshake to form a connection with an RTMP server which then allows users to stream video and audio.


## [Implementation details](#implementation-details)

- Implementation languages: `Go` and `javascript`.

- Server prerequisites:
	- install `ffmpeg`
	- install `go-ipfs` and start `IPFS daemon`

- Server-side implementation layout
	- FFMpeg controller: 
		- connects the network camera and starts encoding to publishable format such as the `ts+m3u8` format combination that's suitable for HLS players embedded in mainstream browsers.
	- File watcher:
		- whenever there's a new stream file generated the watcher notifies the observers to update information accordingly
	- IPFS controller:
		- adds and pins data on the network
		- publishes content via IPNS 
	- Streaming server:
		- returns the requested `m3u8` file 

- User interface
	- built on top of the Vue.js framework
	- leverages [Vue-Video-Player](#https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-vjs-hls)
	- live streaming option to see the realtime footages
	- playback option to watch the past footages

## [Rationales](#rationales)

### [Cache invalidation](#cache-invalidation)
IPNS publishing and resolving both take a certain amount of time (~2 minutes for each).
If the video streaming was served via IPFS there would be a reduced user experience as there would be a great extent of stall when IPFS is publishing and resolving.
In addition, IPNS with DHT (Distributed Hash Table) takes too long since too many people are behind NAT (Network Address Traversal).
Third, IPNS with PubSub is still undergoing issues such as slow initial resolution time among many others, see [IPNS over PubSub Pinning](#https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/integration-mini-projects/issues/4) and [Understanding guarantees of the improved IPNS over pubsub](#https://discuss.ipfs.io/t/understanding-guarantees-of-the-improved-ipns-over-pubsub/8713/6).
Considering the number of stream viewers is not at million-scale, we will use n HTTP server to stream video.
Such a mechanism basically multiplexes video streams from a single server and then distributes the content.
In order to make such a live streaming service highly available,
we may need to set up multiple such HTTP servers in case of the single point failure,
i.e., multiple HTTP servers pull data from the RTMP server and listen to HTTP requests for video streaming.


### [Naming things](#naming-things)
In the event when FFMpeg fails and restarts, the program starts enumerating from the beginning and consequently overwrites the existing indexing file (which ends in `.m3u8`) as well as the existing unit stream data file (that ends in `.ts`).
As a result, there will be duplicate names in the log file and the video stream will then stall.
To avoid such a problem, we need to name each FFMpeg session uniquely (such as using the timestamp) and write a new playlist; i.e., create a new folder and place the stream files under there.


### [Asynchronous callbacks](#asynchronous-callbacks)
Remember, there are multiple activities (namely the FFMpeg, IPFS daemon, and the processing script for adding, pinning and publishing , etc) happening at the same time and they are inter-connected.
If one of them fails the others get affected and the whole system may crash.
In this case, we need to leverage a self-recovery mechanism and may need to put everything in a loop.


### [Off-by-one errors](#off-by-one-errors)
HLS sequences have time code in them and incorrectly ordered sequences may stall the player.
In addition, rewriting of the time code leads to limited success.
In light of these issues, we need to use the HLS tag which indicates the beginning of a new sequence.


## [Open questions](#open-questions)
1. How to setup IPFS gateways for a private IPFS network?
2. Is IPFS-cluster really needed for a private IPFS network in a setting where nodes are distributed over different regions?
3. How do we configure each IPFS node so that the data is mounted to all hard drives given that each IPFS node may have multiple?
4. When to leverage IP-pinning services such as OpenVPN and Yggdrasil so that only specified devices can join the network and publish data?
5. (more to be added and answered...)


## [Future steps](#future-steps)
Data solutions offered by big companies lack customizability as their solutions cannot suit all small corporations.
In light of this, we want to build a decentralized network where developers from the open source community can participate to provide customized solutions for businesses.
The bond between the developers and the requesting businesses will be through smart contracts over blockchain.
The network will also leverage cutting-edge privacy-preserving technologies so that both parties don't need to worry about their privacy being compromised.
Further, we aim to maximize the value of the data from the businesses without sharing the source data themselves.
Such a goal is achievable through the Zero-Knowledge Proof technology.

